>> Speaker 1: I have a question.
I promised my manager I
would ask this when she
allowed me to come to this workshop today.
We are looking at transitioning a product
in the front end space away from
an older framework, really can't react and
really can't beat them.
What are,
>> Speaker 1: The major points that we
should be aware of?
Obviously we've read the React versus
Vue comparisons on the website.
But talking about things like testing or
about translation,
which we just covered briefly, what are
the big points I can go back to her and
say, this is why we should use Vue?
>> Evan You: Cuz this question really
depends on, so there was a recent article
on Medium talking about someone who was
choosing frameworks and he chose Vue.
And one thing to realize about making
these framework positions is that your
company's situation really
kind of dictates the result.
It's hard to make a blanket statement
to say Vue is better than React,
unless we have a concrete situation.
For example,
the Medium article talked about how he was
having a Lexy app with a lot of bugs.
And the cost of migrating it,
upgrading the old app was just too high.
And they have limited resources.
There was only one developer at that time.
And they need to be able to very quickly
onboard new devs onto this new app and
they need to rewrite it.
And so development efficiency and
time pressure all plays into this,
of how fast can you build something and
how fast can you onboard new devs to it?
And personally,
I feel that in terms of onboarding speed,
Vue is probably the best among
the current mainstream frameworks.
So let's say, if you read through
the docs, and you are already pretty good
at JavaScript, you should be able
to pick up Vue reasonably fast.
In a day or two, you should be able to
do some basic things, and in a week, you
should feel very comfortable contributing
to something in production, right?
Which is not necessarily the case when
we speak about some bigger frameworks,
which are more complex.
There are more concepts you need to be,
you have to just have to grab more
concepts to be able to feel confident.
I think that's one big thing.
So, if onboarding speed
is really important for
the current timeline, then I think
Vue would be a really good choice.
That's one of the biggest advantages,
I would say.
Because eventually,
if you have enough time in the long run,
>> Evan You: All
the three major frameworks are able
to sort of provide the necessary
bits that you'll eventually need.
But another aspect of it is productivity
or when we talk about productivity,
it's kind of important to realize
that it's not always objective.
Productivity has a lot to do with
the subjective preference of your team.
If your team, so
I've observed that developers can kind of
very naturally falls into different camps
when there are preferences involved.
And a lot of times,
you cannot really easily
force people to overcome their
preference in a lot of ways.
Like the JSX versus template debate,
I've just seen it so many times, so
many people have voiced their opinions.
But still this conversation
just goes on and on, and
sometimes it's just really
hard to change people's mind.
And even if you believe something is
objectively superior, if the other
developer just hates it, he will never
be really productive with it, right?
If he doesn't fall in love with it, he
probably won't enjoy working on the app.
So his productivity will naturally fall.
So I think it's important to
actually let the team try things and
get their direct feedback on whether
they enjoy working with the framework.
if they do, then it's a good indicator
that they will be more productive than
with, say, another framework.
And I wouldn't say Vue is
always more pleasant one.
Because some people do prefer React or
prefer Angular.
So it's important to find it out for
your team because every team will
consist of different developers, yeah.
So try it out is I think is
the most important thing.
So to answer your question,
I wouldn't necessarily believe your
company would be better off using View.
It really depends on the result
of actually trying it, yeah.
>> Speaker 3: What do you
think about web components?
Is it possible that in the future
View will use web components,
shadow DOM, stuff like that?
>> Evan You: So there is a possibility
because we do have, [COUGH] say, for
example, Angular 2.04 does have
different modes, where one of it is
using actual web components, the other
is kind of implicitly falling back.
It's feasible that in the future,
when web components are indeed
supported in all browsers or
cover more than 98% of your user base,
we will eventually ship a version
that leverages some of the features.
It will not necessarily be
full on web components.
We will probably be able to leverage
shadow DOM for style encapsulation.
We will probably be able to leverage some
of the features that comes along with it.
But I still believe that web
components ultimately will probably
serve better as a form of distribution for
interop between frameworks.
So some of the libraries
are pretty good at, for
example, svelte is pretty good
at compiling itself down into
the formats that doesn't
need a big runtime.
So those are really good for distributing,
wrap it up as a web component.
You can throw in any framework in it,
you can use it.
I think that's the biggest value
of web components at this moment.
The biggest hurdle is
still browser support.
And also we see that React has
brought up a lot of ideas, for
example, declarative and
functional programming,
that are not necessarily problems that
are even addressed by web components.
So web components isn't going to
be this sort of once and for all.
And the framework, well,
I don't think that's going to happen.
It's more or less going to be this,
I think it's because value it sort
of bringing about these upcoming new
primitives that frameworks
can then leverage.
To simplify their own implementations or
build on top of it, and
then facilitate interop
between different frameworks.
Yeah, that's my view of it.
>> Speaker 3: Can you elaborate when we
should choose Vue X with Vue versus Redux
with Vue?
>> Evan You: Well, my opinion is,
unless you are super,
super into immutable and functional stuff,
you should always use UX.
Because it's designed to work with Vuw and
better dev tools integration.
And also, it's just the way
that UX relies on mutations
fits more naturally with how Vue detect
changes and its rendering architecture.
So, it's naturally more automized
out of the box, I would say.
With Redux,
it's still pretty efficient but
just not as efficient as Vue X would be.
And also another thing is Vue X,
if from, say, a hiring perspective,
since Vue X is the official state
management pattern for Vue.
So if you're hiring a new Vue dev,
he or she will probably already
somewhat familiar with Vue X,
but not necessarily with Redux.